In the previous lesson we have built our question form, and added validation error messages in the form markup
Now in this lesson we will implement form validation to verify whether the question being asked is valid or
not.
once we sure that the question is valid we'll save it into our database.
All right let's head over to our terminal and by now
I'm sure you already are familiar with it stuffs
so let's create a new branch git
checkout -b and then the branch name will be?
That's right
lesson-8
Now let's head over to our terminal
and this time we will be implement form validation in different way
we'll define our validation rules outside the controller
So we'll write them in separate file and we can call the file as form request
and then we call or load it in our controller.
this will make our controller a bit cleaner.
Actually, defining validation rules in form request is intended for complex scenario. But, I want you
learn a lot.
So you know many different ways to get things done. OK firstly we need to create the file and in order
to do that
let's jump to our terminal. And From now on I'll be using visual studio code integrated terminal
and I can open it by hitting "ctrl+`"
or via menu "View - Integrated terminal". Once it opened the prompt will be our current project and here we can
open multiple terminal by hitting this plus button
and here we can see the opened terminal in this dropdown, and we can switch from one terminal to another
by clicking this dropdown item.
All right here in the first terminal I'll run my server
php artisan serve
OK the server now running. Now I'll switch to my second terminal and I'll use this one to run artisan
command.
So, if you're not using visual studio code editor or you prefer to use your favorite terminal you can
continue using it.
But for now on I'll be using this integrated terminal
and this maybe no longer used so I'll close it.
Alright, here let's generate our form request by typing:
php artisan make:request and then
name of our form request. You can name it with any name
but I think it's better to contain model name and end with `Request`
So in this case let's call it ask question request hit return.
Now if we go to app
http folder we'll find `Requests` folder and inside it we'll find AskQuestionReqeust.php
Let's open this file
and inside this file we'll find  `authorize` method which we can read in the comment is to determine if
the user is authorized to make this request.
for now let's change this to return `true` that's mean all users are authorized to make this request because
we only need to define the validation rules
in this `rules` method
So here we simple define validation rules for our question in the return array
so the title will be required
and it should be maximum two hundred and fifty five
for the body
I think we only need it to be required.
OK, save that. And now let's open the `QuestionsController`
and jump to `store` method
here
Let's change the type-hint from request to ask question request
And that's it
we defined the validation rules in AskQuestionRequest and to actually validate the request
We need to type hint our method with our form request.
so, as I said by doing this our controller will be a bit cleaner because we're separated our validation
logic in separate file
and here I made mistake
It should be ask question request sorry for that.
Now here let's show message for a while.
So this message will be shown in the requests pass our validation rules.
All right let's save this and try that out.
Actually here in the top
we need to import the file
save the change and let's give it a try let's open the question form
and here let the form empty and then hit the submit button.
Now you can see the validation error messages are appear
next
Let's enter only the title
input
and then hit submit button.
I got error validate
two hundred and fifty five does not exist.
Let me check that
And of course this should be max two hundred fifty five
save and reload again
here will get an error message below the question body
only we have no error message in the title input now
but the problem is we lost the question title that we enter before hitting the submit button
So to fix that
let's go back to our editor switch to create.blade.php
and here in the title input let's
specify value attribute
and it's value will be populated with old value or value before we hitting submit button
So here we can say
old
title
Next
let's also do almost the same thing to body textarea
here we need to place the old value between textare opening and closing tag
let's try again
reload the page
enter only title input
and then hit the submit button.
OK now we don't loose our question title.
Now let's also enter the question body
and then hit the submit button.
Alright
we have store message show up
That's mean our validation is working and we're ready to save the question to our database.